= Linecook

A shell script generator.

== Description

Linecook helps to make scripts more manageable by allowing you to compose them
from ERB helpers and attributes files. Scripts can be written at a higher
level, and easily reconstructed when something changes. Scripts can be
compiled in place, or built into packages that can be used, for example, to
provision servers.

== Usage

Layout a project.

  mkdir -p attributes helpers packages recipes

Define attributes.

  cat > attributes/chalkboard.yml <<DOC
  n: 3
  color: blue
  message: I will not manually configure my server
  DOC

Define a helper.

  mkdir -p helpers/chalkboard
  cat > helpers/chalkboard/echo_in_color.erb <<DOC
  Echo a string in color.
  (color, str)
    color_codes = Hash[*%W{
      black       0;30   red         0;31
      white       1;37   green       0;32
      light_gray  0;37   blue        0;34
    }]
  --
  echo -e '\033[<%= color_codes[color.to_s] %>m<%= str %>\033[0m'
  DOC

Use both in a recipe.

  cat > recipes/chalkboard.rb <<DOC
  attributes "chalkboard"
  helpers "chalkboard"

  attrs['n'].times do
    echo_in_color attrs['color'], attrs['message']
  end
  DOC

Build the recipe.

  linecook build -c recipes/chalkboard.rb

Check the packages directory to see the resulting script.

  cat packages/chalkboard/run
  echo -e '\033[0;34mI will not manually configure my server\033[0m'
  echo -e '\033[0;34mI will not manually configure my server\033[0m'
  echo -e '\033[0;34mI will not manually configure my server\033[0m'

== Installation

Linecook is available as a {gem}[http://rubygems.org/gems/linecook].

  gem install linecook

== Development

Install dependencies using Bundler:

  gem install bundler
  bundle install

Build a test VM using the {VM Setup}[rdoc-ref:doc/vm_setup.rdoc] doc, and make
a config/ssh file that can can connect to it using the default Host (ie Host
*). If you didn't customize anything, then you can use 'config/ssh.example'
directly. When setup correctly this prints 'success' with any HOST:

  ssh -F config/ssh [HOST] -- 'echo success'

Now run the tests:

  rake test

Report issues and submit pull requests on {GitHub}[https://github.pinnacol.com/pinnacol/linecook].

== Info 

Developer:: {Simon Chiang}[http://github.com/thinkerbot]
License:: {MIT-Style}[link:files/License_txt.html]